---
title: Collaborative Git
excerpt: In this session you will use Git to collaborate on a project with a classmate. While you're doing this you will re-create a challenging situation - the dreaded merge conflict.
status: published
---

<script>
	import Homework from "$lib/components/Homework.svelte";
	import LessonPlan from "$lib/components/LessonPlan.svelte";
	import Achievement from "$lib/components/Achievement.svelte";
</script>

<LessonPlan {status}>

<h2>Housekeeping</h2>

- [CPNT 260 Assignment 1](/courses/cpnt-260/assessments/assignment-1) marks returned.
	- Example Submission:
		- [GitHub repo](https://github.com/sait-wbdv/f23-spoilers-cpnt260-a1)
		- [GH Pages site](https://sait-wbdv.github.io/f23-spoilers-cpnt260-a1/)
- Announced: [CPNT 201 Assignment 2](/courses/cpnt-201/assessments/assignment-2)
	- Weight: 20%
	- Due: Friday September 22 @ 11:59pm

---

<h2>Activity: Commit Catch and Markdown Review</h2>

### Materials
- [Markdown Cheat Sheet](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/)
- [Commit Catch](https://gist.github.com/acidtone/3a7ff64489b4fc641f0b96be8edd561d)

### Instructions
In pairs, or groups of three:
1. Set up a shared repo with your partner(s) according to the instructions in [Commit Catch](https://gist.github.com/acidtone/3a7ff64489b4fc641f0b96be8edd561d).
2. Think of a job, game, sport, task, something that you share with your partner.
3. Pick a partner to create a new `README.md` document;
4. Add a level one heading with a title of your document:
  	- An h1 heading `# Name of activity`
5. Add, commit and push your changes and switch roles;
6. Have the other partner pull the changes just added and repeat Steps 4 and 5 by adding at one of the following:
		- A very short description of the activity (just write)
		- An h2 heading `## Task List`
		- A list of steps involved in your task **or** your task's responsibilities (ordered with numbers or unordered with dashes)
		- Include a link to a website that relates to your activity in some way `[text that is seen](https://pathtosite.org)`
7. Continue until your document contains satisfies the requirements for [Today's Achievement](/courses/cpnt-201/day-3#todays-achievement).

---

<h2>Merge Conflicts</h2>

### Activity: Creating a Merge Conflict
Using the same partner(s) and repo from the earlier activity, create a merge conflict.

### Instructions
With a clean working tree and up-to-date local repos:
1. Have both/all partners make a change to the same line of code;
2. Have one partner add, commit and push their changes;
3. Have the second partner try to add, commit and push their changes;
4. Resolve the resulting merge conflict by following the instructions in [this activity](https://gist.github.com/acidtone/d8c2e285c9b25fcb7443a4f0f4e4b4e6#resolve-merge-conflict).

### Terminology

<dl>
	<dt>Merge</dt>
	<dd>When two branches in Git are merged into one. This will often happen if two developers are submitted code to a project or one developer is submitting code from two machines.</dd>
	<dt>Merge conflict</dt>
	<dd>When two branches edit the same line of code. Git doesn't know which change to keep so it leaves it to the developer to decide when remote code is pulled.</dd>
	<dt>Current Change</dt>
	<dd>The change (relevant to the conflict) that was made on the local repo.</dd>
	<dt>Incoming Change</dt>
	<dd>The change that is incoming from the remote repo.</dd>
</dl>

---

</LessonPlan>

<Achievement {status}>

### Commit Catch
Submit the repo that you created with your partner(s) to Brightspace.

As a comment in your submission, include:
- A link to your GitHub repo (which should include your partner(s) as collaborators).
- The classmate(s) you created the document with.

#### Marking Criteria
1. Your document should include at least one of the following in valid markdown syntax:
		- Level 1 heading
		- Level 2 heading
		- Paragraph
		- Bold text
		- Italicized text
		- A numbered list OR a bulleted list
		- A link to an external website
2. There should be at least two commits from *EACH* team member in your Git history.

</Achievement>